it's sizzling it's hot it's the most fun
you can have in the garden without
taking your clothes off we've joined the
Americans the Australians and the rest
of the world in our prays for doing it
of course I'm referring to the BBQ and
over the next six weeks I'll be
traveling all over the globe armed with
sloppy hatton tongs to bring you
sizzling idea to recreate on your
barbecue back home yes folks get ready
for an alfresco feet
all lanes that looks so complicated well
it's not get your grips with the basics
and you can become a BBQ black belt I'll
be looking at lots of different types of
barbecues how to light them temperature
control oh yes indeed Ainsley and of
course all those fancy gadgets but more
important than anything else hey there's
food glorious food and today we're going
to do it right here on the up and
allotment in Birmingham nurs from 13
different countries and the most exotic
produce you've heard of the global
village or this is the global garden
I picked the scenario beautiful summer's
day you're on the dog and bone to your
friends come over we're gonna have a bit
of a Barbie go out do a bit of shopping
you come back someone's prepping up in
the kitchen you're outside master of the
BBQ everything's going beautifully
rubbing in the factor 15r I'm feeling
nice today then everything starts going
wrong you panic you shove more paper in
you're putting more fuel on top
squirting all sorts of things before
long there's a towering inferno try to
keep it at neighbors complaining washing
being pulled off their life what am I
gonna do guests are arriving so you grab
your chicken your throat onto your
Barbie and before long they look just
like the briquettes hey I'm sure it
sounds familiar but all your problems
could so easily be solved if you follow
these easy steps now take off your grill
and put on your charcoal briquettes burn
longer and hotter that lump wood is
easier to light a couple of layers of
charcoal is enough don't overload your
barb it's very important that this will
give you about 45 minutes to an hour of
cooking time
then to light them pile them up into
kind of like a pyramid shape and tucking
your fire lighters or sprinkle with a
special barbecue fluid now please please
please only use a special barbecue fluid
here nothing else and never pour a more
fluid 14 coals are actually lit now the
coals are flaming and if you don't want
your food to look like a briquette don't
even attempt to cook it now but you can
always try on a walk and make a quick
stir fry a traditional pad thai as i'll
be showing you in thailand bangkok style
after about 10 minutes when the coals
beginning to glow red underneath spread
them out and then slide in your grill
but remember no bbqing for at least
another 40 minutes instead you could use
that yes he to make a delicious sauce
like my Jamaican rum butter glaze all
yes idly now we're ready to cook the
coals are no longer flaming unlikely
covered with an ash which means they're
hot ideal for cooking thin and lean
pieces of food or charring peppers or
chilis like my creamy stuff chilies
which went down a storm in the old
Caribbean let me tell you when the grass
is thicker there's only a slight red
glow to the coals there now they're most
useful temperature medium hot you can
cook almost any food at this temperature
like my succulent fired peppered tuna
which I'll be showing you how to cook in
south africa or Calabria lamb patties
from Oz or indeed some delicious cormac
or tech chickpea burgers which are about
to make for you now I've already sweated
down one whole onion that I've chopped
up a little bit of butter here and
caramelized on the edges into that had a
nice fat juicy clove of garlic
oh yes there you go and that i'm going
to add not eight ounces of grated carrot
and key medium quarters that i've cut up
and sort of pieces get a nice texture so
when i bind that together it really
looks beautiful the colors just stand
out magnificently yes tossing it
together Oh beautiful lovely little bit
of pepper and you touch salt that's it
lovely Oh give back a little bit 08 mix
now I'm going to tell you how to combine
all these wonderful flavors together
right blitz down one can of chickpeas
which I have washed and drained and I've
blitz them down in my food processor to
that you add one egg yolk I said three
tablespoons of chopped flat parsley if
you wanted to use the spring variety you
could but it'll make you bounce up and
down a little bit but there you go and
two teaspoons of korma curry paste which
it's in fact it's quite mild so if you'd
like it a little bit spicy you can go
out and get yourself a nice hot paste
and put a couple of teaspoons of that
aliens head left up to you or I'm so
good but next is some peanut butter love
tablespoons of peanut butter if you've
got an allergy to nuts please just don't
bother putting it in use another egg
yolk to bind it together but just
eliminate it completely from it finally
I've got two breadcrumbs there now i'm
using wholemeal bread crumbs we wanted
to use white once again please do then
we just start to mix that all together
mixing that in a little bit of pepper in
there that's it Andy touch of salt
that's lovely that's it once again
devout a mix okay now for our vegetables
you suppose straight in now you don't
want to overcook them want to keep them
nice and crunchy just releasing the
flavors there sit lovely and then I look
slept together you want to get a lot of
air in here this time to cool down those
vegetables because the idea is is that
you make up the burgers with your
fingers oh yes aids that's it that's
lovely okay now start next the best way
of describing it is first to pick up
large enough quantity to make something
like something slightly smaller than a
tennis ball and shape it with your hands
and then flatten it and curl it in your
palms all at the same time until you
have the perfect korma courgette
chickpea burger mmm yes look at that
that's what you call a veggie burger you
pop them in your fridge for a couple of
hours and take them out and they cooked
beautifully on your barbecue
lightly brush the burgers with the oil
and barbecue over medium hot coals for
67 minutes on each side
then serve it at Geopetrol summer salad
leaves and fresh coriander mayonnaise
solutely scrubbing indeed proof that you
don't need me to enjoy a party and
there's plenty more sizzling vegetarian
ideas to fire your imagination
throughout the series outdoor cooking is
a regular activity here amongst the
upland gardeners so I've got myself some
expert help to check out some different
barbecues available on today's market
now this is Lincoln and Jean car be not
only fabulous gardeners that they also
love the good old Barbie now Jeannie
what have we got here right you've got
some nice fresh salmon steaks we've
marinated them for a few hours and we've
got in here peppers shallots and garlic
all come off the allotment literally you
grow them here and you put them in to
marinate you beautiful war wonderful now
listen I've given you this guest
barbecue to try it for the very first
time we're talking about the real growth
end of the market a lot of people like
them some people have their kind of
reservations about it what's your
feeling well my feeling it could be good
because I never used one before I used
mccole barbecue and I think the great
Nicole barbecue right right but trying
this out and I'll be able to tell you
later on if it's any good or not
especially the taste idea what about the
controls and something there's lots of
stuff down here you feel comfortable
with that I feel comfortable with it yes
mm-hmm I guess barbecues are a lot
quicker than the normal charcoal Barbie
how long did it take before you could
actually put your sermon on top around
10 minutes literally 10 minutes i'm here
to how long with the charcoal um about
40 minutes oh wow such a difference is
such a difference in very quickly I mean
you can't get on bridges it's looking
very very good at it I'll come back and
see you both later all right good
morning everybody hello Paul nice to see
you Wesley nice to you one good good
good now this is Paul saw who's been
cooking out in the open air for a very
very long time he's a right old regular
you might say
what type of things do you cook pool I
place like roast meats but reduce Moses
as well mm-hmm new badges your courage
but today I've given you something
rather special to cook on a kettle
barbecue have you ever cooked on one of
these before no not on these type mm-hmm
well let's have a look inside what
you've already got underneath our dome
Oh a beautiful leg of lamb what have you
done with it i marinated there's
something very special Miller yogurt you
can some gum masala but slug ground this
is left on the ground he does some lemon
rind garlic just as good made herself
and you allow it to marinate and how
would you normally cook a leg of lamb
normally I use it to open fire you stick
it on and I just cooked one said you
carve it off and then you could put more
yeah I know yeah yeah it's a very social
way of doing is they're sort of whipping
off a bit and sort of hand it out well
this kettle barbecues a totally
different way of cooking what you do is
you pop it on top of your rack if you
wanted to marinate it like you've done
so beautifully you could and you allow
the hot coals and the smoke to cook it
underneath the dome you'd literally
leave it for about two hours and it'll
cook nice and slowly and succulently you
must promise you don't open it in an
hour's time and take it a feud for
little slices off all right I'll come
back and see you soon okay take care bye
see you later hello Patrick how are you
magn khabar Gail special delivery I've
got some nice goodies here for you guys
oh look at these now this is Maggie and
Patrick and they're rather special
because they have won prizes for their
vegetables tell us all about it Pat
prizes for the pumpkins apples plums
lettuces flower arranging no better
flower around you you can't beat that
can you well certainly some of those
things that you mentioned earlier you
want the pumpkins that you might well be
able to use their on these Barbies I
want you to try these out we've got the
disposable Barbie here
the foldaway Barbie all the instructions
are them to light them and put them
together and of course the bucket Barbie
here just fire that up good luck to you
both I see you soon yeah take care and
now for my classic barbecue sauce and
delicious salsa fry an onion and garlic
and all your pepper and place on hot
coals for about 10 minutes you enjoying
that with the sweet corn brothers they
take slightly longer about 15 back to
our source at one tin of chopped
tomatoes and a couple of tablespoons of
tomato puree sugar make it light brown
one tablespoon of Worcester sauce is
nice and splash of Tabasco
white wine vinegar for a Tang English
mustard at sub a stir season and simmer
hot coals for about 10 minutes
now what about that salsa pop that
pepper in a bag to steam off that skin
then peeling it well it's child's play
slice those kernels off your cub
one chopped red onion 2 chopped chilies
zest of lemon dices nice
let the juice loose
avocado is so cool mmm stir it in and
get your lead
kill that pepper down now hey wanna do
season it up Viva salsa
the source and sulfur are rooted with
sausages and here are few tips to ensure
yours are simply perfect use one of
these nifty grill racks which means you
can turn them over all at the same time
your coals must be medium hot without
any flames and plenty of gray ash use
the air vent cool them down if you've
got one as the sausages begin to cook
that will drip onto the coals and cause
flare-ups which will burn them before
they're properly cooked so have a spray
bottle of water and put out the flames
cooking will take about eight to ten
minutes and you can turn them every now
and then until they're lovely and
juicing
serve up the barbecue sauce and of
course the salsa you're guaranteed have
plenty of satisfied customers how's it
taste tell me ya did good
you know we're really lucky in this
country to be able to buy a whole
variety of barbecues along with gadgets
and accessories but you really don't
need to spend a fortune when it comes to
having the Barbie we got here that's
nice
one thing I noticed about traveling
abroad is that you hardly ever saw a
shop board Barbie but who needs what all
you need is a little imagination
and a little bit of help from one of
your mates I can defense your Barbie
Barbie I'm gonna bargain I grabbed our
Sun coming up a look at these okay come
on no it's a load of rubbish that a load
of rubbish we got potential barbecues
there I've actually what we need those I
need a nice bit of chicken wire yeah I
need a hammer and a chisel to make a few
holes can you do that for me no I'll
take all these bricks up here huh i Ken
yep the principle of any barbecue is
they first get the container fill it
with cold I've got this grass container
here it's a bit rusty but it's already
got the holes in the bottom that really
get the earphones yeah yes they act look
at out you can imagine I should stretch
it over the top under there that's
Barbie number one they are tell you have
young got a grass to Ken i'll
guarantee you'll have one of these look
no bc kitchen i'll bet everyone know you
know precisely yeah nobody would think
of it will pop a few holes in the bottom
right yep okay if you can't get a
biscuit tin my boy dlf 10 to ease the
old terracotta cut sieve got a hole in
the bottom for the air surface now what
about these for rex king normal grill
rack normal cake stand there calling
cakes ideal probably cost about a pound
here that's very convenient unless if
you're specially on the allotment yeah
happy with this you impressed i am
impressed you will when i do you some
cooking let's get cooking now right
a few safety tips been using improvised
Barbies always placed on a non-flammable
surface like brick or paving stone and
never move them when lit or they might
burn your grass that's the terracotta
pot it's a good idea to soak in warm
water for about 10 minutes before using
however they still tend to crack after
excessive use but hey don't we all what
do you think now then Ken the great this
is he just loved it yeah i mean
everything cooks so quickly as well i
know me well didn't you don't need to
get and spend a fortune it's all here
it's here imple but i wonder if i'm
gonna get me well better back right I'm
rolling can roll on for my next recipe
i'm gonna be using the pedestal barbecue
what's really exciting about these is
they're ready in about 15 minutes you
simply plunge paper into the flute there
and light it through these little small
holes at the bottom and within 15
minutes hey you've got a little burning
barbie it's quite delightful very easy
to use and i bet you thought that was a
stand when you saw in your friends gum I
certainly did for a while but back to my
uncle's port Calypso first you take 2.5
centimeters of grated fresh ginger just
pop that in along two cloves of garlic 2
tablespoons of muscovado should always a
wonderful words dick muscovado haha a
good pinch of allspice now you down a
little bit more if you like that sort of
cinnamon nutmeg e flavor just bring a
little bit more about in there 2
tablespoons of pineapple juice and a
couple of tablespoons of oil there i'm
not using olive oil here to brown or
sunflower oil refined you don't need
that sort of all of you flavor in here
at all because it's overtaken by the
next ingredient rump boy does that make
a difference
a couple of tablespoons of them round
just pour that in there like that mmm
it's smelling good yes get that a bit of
a mix now people be wondering why
uncle's port Calypso ainsley where every
time my uncle's you to come and visit us
used to hear my mother sort of shelter
what I thought the door and my uncle's
will be there and as they opened the
door the aroma of this we just hit their
nostrils as it sort of came off the
barbecues it y pepe would you my mother
that poor clips are smells sweet girl ha
ok let's have a little seasoning first
with a bit of pepper and some salt if
that a good mix up there now just crush
down all those little nuggets there that
you sometimes get from the muscovado
sugar there's crush them down stir that
in and then pop your pork chops into the
marinade and to really push that down
turn them over make sure you pick up all
that flavor all around your meat that's
it and the beauty of this is that you
could pop it in your fridge with a bit
of cling film on top for about 24 hours
to let all that flavor really penetrate
through or indeed leave for a couple of
hours and then just slap it on to your
barbie now talking about marinades and
talking about flavors it doesn't just
have to stop with what you put on your
meat it can come from your coals now
just look what I've got here I've got a
whole array of woods there that help to
add flavor to your meat first here we've
got a mesquite type of wood which oh
that's a lovely aroma coming from that
next to it there is hickory wood ah and
some oak lovely this one's very similar
to sort of the pop puri isn't it and it
really got it oh and lovely smell to it
you can just sprinkle them on your coals
and fill the air with gorgeous aromas
all of these are available in little
bags or tubes at your supermarket or
your little sort of hardware corner shop
but if you want something that you might
find at home how about some peelings of
some of your citrus fruits like limes
lemons or indeed oranges I'm just going
to throw a few of those on to my body to
give it a lovely flavor I'm gonna put in
some robust herbs like rosemary perhaps
even a bit of time that's another sort
of very tough resilient herb and they
will flavor your meat or fish or
vegetables beautifully excellent now
let's pop on our pork chops just let
them cook about six or seven minutes
each side delightful now with this
marinade here you don't just want to
discard it and really want to use it as
a base is basically it on top of your
league throughout the course of the
cooking you'll just have your pasting
brush every now and then you can just
turn them over that's six or seven
minutes each side just the pasting this
you go to get all those lovely flavours
in fact let's drizzle on a little bit
now there we
you
these will go beautifully with your poor
clips and they're so easy to do everyone
will love them just bought a new boat
ate until almost tender flesh with some
oil season pop onto skewers and BBQ
alongside your meat for a few minutes
until gorgeously golden now you like a
little bit Herbie why not sprinkle some
chopped 2 rows me on top will make them
extra life well it's almost party time
so let's see how Linton and gene are
getting on with their salmon how you
doing guys very very intense martini
waiting on your fee long time now you've
been waiting I'm in now am I on there I
made wine only one they're gonna stop it
I'll get stuck in and I see oh that's
lovely but it's a salmon equally as good
I think so he jumps on a sauna yeah
awesome fork serving should we get stuck
in
hmm are you thinking very nice lovely
and moist and succulent wooden house I
compared to an all-too charcoal tation
well i think it's it's miler even any
ordinary charcoal because it's sharp all
the tendon vtec it gets a bit too much
of a smoking baby i think is what about
the gas barber you in bunk impressed
with that yeah I what I like about it is
you can it's got a rotisserie and you
can put a large joint on it turkey
chicken whatever and just go away and
leave it because there's a thermostat on
it and you can control that no I think
you and Linton have definitely been
converted I'm gonna go off now gotta go
and cheap all but get all your food
ready pop up to the party and I'll see
you later I wonder if Paul's gonna be
impressed with this kettle barbecue it's
they were with their gas barbecue ah
from here it smells amazing let's see
what it tastes like 00 are easily tons
of it yeah Serbia's it's wonderful yeah
but it just isn't it mmm it's got that
lovely smoky taste to it beautiful I'm
gonna taste the cardamom everything
coming through arts lovely pool that
good lovely rattled now you can see
that's brown on both sides without the
meat actually being turned over and
that's because the heat with Flex from
the top of the dome then that shiny done
with comes back there and browned your
meat and you get that lovely sort of
smoky flavor going with it and yes I'm
very impressed right well I'm gonna be
off now and she practically Maggie so
you just get ready for the party later
on see ya answer then okay pop I
Oh Maggie and pet how you getting on I
only for a wonderful wonderful now look
at you putting on your key Babs and 00
instantly they hit they smell now what
did you think of the disposable Barbie
then very good yeah going on holiday
then an ideal thing really was cheap and
cheerful but very very good for a
holiday what about the foldaway Pat bit
flimsy maybe not exactly safe when
children around but it serves a purpose
what about the bucket superb that one
it's everything about I teach you can
pack it all up put it in the boot of the
car pull it out light it up all right
and you know why so we've definitely you
really like the bucket disposable for
maybe a quick sort of weekend away but
not too sure about the old flimsy fold
away great I think you've done really
well here so get it all ready and i'll
see you at the party yeah all right lord
I go take it easy
hi guys hey doing all right
you
join me next week for another BBQ
bonanza from the greek island of alana
sauce until then happy sizzling bye-bye
you